we begin tonight obviously with the
major news of the week the dramatic
release of one man's painstaking work
and the impact it may have on history
[Music]
it's Queen Elizabeth 93rd birthday today
and that guy just nailed it but
but obviously there was one other major
story this week concerning the latest
installment in the ongoing stalker that
we've been calling stupid Watergate
basically water gauge but if Nixon had
been kicked in the head by a bunny ghost
and also if that billy goats have been
the White House chief of staff and the
reason we're talking about this is that
on Thursday the Muller report was
finally released it was over 400 pages
long and many in the media chose to make
a feature of processing it in plain
sight at miss NBC had Ari Melba reading
it in the corner of the studio as if
relegated to the kids table while New
York won at 30 uninterrupted seconds of
their printer getting ready to print the
report out but what's the molar report
had actually been read it became clear
that there was a lot in it Muller
confirmed that Russia interfered in our
election made repeated contacts with
Trump associates but did not conclude
that the Trump team engaged in a
criminal conspiracy with Russia but the
report said several actions by the
president were investigated as
potentially amounting to obstruction of
justice
Muller's team says if we had confidence
that the president clearly did not
commit obstruction of justice we would
so state and that last one is a pretty
conspicuous non exoneration if you were
interviewing the job applicant and they
told you just so you know I wasn't found
guilty of my neighbor's
mailboxes but I also specifically wasn't
found to innocence necessarily rule them
out but you definitely think twice about
hiring them and some of the details in
this report were incredible when Trump
learned that Special Counsel Robert
Muller was appointed he slumped back at
his chair and said oh my god this is
terrible
this is the end of my presidency I'm
effed
he said I'm and while we
obviously don't know whether Trump will
face any repercussions from this report
I'd like to just live for a little
longer in the moment of him saying this
is the end of my presidency I'm
in fact I'd like to take some artistic
license to fully paint that scene for
you Trump upon learning Robert Muller
was appointed slumping back in his chair
meanwhile Ivanka is playing fetch with
John Jr
its tongue is stuck to a somehow frozen
flagpole Reince Priebus is walking
around with his head inside a honeypot
jared is standing motionless directly in
front of a blank wall steve Bannon is
stress eating a bowl of used syringes
and Steven Miller is gleefully pulling
the legs off a spider while Trump says
those beautiful words as tears roll down
his cheeks this is the end of my
presidency
I'm and right at that very moment
a pigeon flies into the room and shits
in his mouth that's what happened I'm
just saying we don't definitively know
that it didn't and look look we clearly
can't cover everything in the report
tonight so instead I'd like to
concentrate on two key factors that may
have saved the president here
incompetence when it comes to conspiracy
with Russia and disobedience when it
comes to obstruction of justice so let's
start with incompetence meaning let's
start with Michael Cohen because the
report spells out that Cohen was in
contact with Russians through much of
the campaign
mostly concerning Trump's efforts to
build a tower in Moscow which in and of
itself is already wildly inappropriate
it is clearly compromising for a
presidential candidate to be asking for
business papers from a hostile foreign
government but from the very beginning
Cohen was laughably inept at one point
he reached out to Putin's press
spokesman Dmitry Peskov but couldn't get
through it turns out that's because he
meant to email PR Pescara at PR press
gov but actually emailed dot gough
instead and dot gough of course sends
you right to the server for the new HBO
series Game of Thrones err where
powerful flounder families fight for
control of the seven sandbars it starts
in June this network is another
even more ridiculous case of Cohen
bungling contact with Russians involved
dmitry klokov
a former press secretary to russia's
energy energy minister cloak offs
ex-wife had contacted Ivanka offering
his assistance to the Trump campaign so
that is someone with ties to the Russian
government offering help to elect Trump
Ivanka forwarded that email to Cohen who
googled dmitry klokov and concluded that
the person they must be talking about
was a
former Olympic weightlifter by that name
a man who has videos online like this
[Applause]
Koen apparently saw that and thought
well I definitely got the right to Mitri
klokov apparently Russia's energy
ministers press secretary is completely
jacked and good for you bruh hustle for
that muscle sorted a strong tomorrow I'm
alright get swole feed the soul from one
beef towel to another respect and from
all appearances the real cloak off kept
trying to set up a meeting between Trump
and Vladimir Putin but Cohen basically
blew that proposal off which may not be
surprising given that even during his
interviews with Muller Cohen still
appeared to believe that the cloak off
he spoke with was the Olympic
weightlifter and of course he was
confused
he was probably still trying to figure
out why deceased German ice hockey
goalie robert muller wanted to speak
with him in the first place
and it wasn't just Cohen the report
found multiple instances where people
tied to the Russian government offered
Trump's campaign assistance and in some
instances the campaign was receptive but
the thing that seemed to stop closer
coordination from happening was often
cartoonish levels of disorganization and
incompetence on top of which there were
times when the Trump's team's ignorant
ignorant of basic legal concepts seems
to have actively helped shield them from
criminal liability most notably when it
came to the infamous Trump Tower meeting
featuring Don jr. Jerrod Paul Manafort
and a Russian offering more dirt
Muller's team concluded it would
unlikely be able to prove beyond a
reasonable doubt that the meeting
participants had general knowledge that
their conduct was unlawful yeah that
kind of makes sense doesn't it it is
gonna be hard to prove that this guy had
general knowledge that his conduct could
be breaking the law or that he had
general knowledge of anything at all
other than what it feels like to watch
Flags get more hugs from your dad than
you get if you live to be a thousand
so so when it comes to conspiracy trunk
saving grades may have been that despite
Russians wanting to help everyone around
him was too inept to work with them so
as for the other major question in
mullahs report obstruction of justice
Trump's saving graves there may have
been that despite ample evidence that he
tried to do it everyone around him was
too disobedient to listen the report
paints a remarkable portrait of the
President as a man obsessed with the
Russia investigation trying to seize
control of the inquiry through his White
House aides it highlights at least 10
current and former administration
officials or associates who did not
carry out his orders Wow
the news that the President ordered
subordinates to do things that might
constitute obstruction and then they
just ignored him is both reassuring and
also terrified
that's not hearing your spouse say you
don't have to worry about the snake
because the baby killed it well hold on
I'm glad the snake is dead but that
means that was a snake in there
and it also means our baby has snake
killing strength I'm sorry there's a lot
to process here I'm happy I'm relieved
but I'm also angry and confused you're
throwing a lot of at me
and there are multiple instances of
people ignoring the president's
instructions like when Trump asked Cory
Lewandowski to send his Attorney General
a message the president gave him orders
to tell the Attorney General then Jeff
Sessions to curtail the scope of the
Russia investigation now Lewandowski
according to the report never followed
through on it attempting to pass it off
to another aide who did also not follow
through on what the president instructed
so that's a chain of two people failing
to follow through on a demand from the
president and he didn't stop there
because that age then passed Trump's
order off to an assistant who opened the
window and shouted it to a groundskeeper
who wrote it down and taped it to a
Roomba that was passing by which drove
itself straight into the river because
this isn't why it got into government
although the most shocking example of
the president being ignored involved
former White House Counsel Don Magan
Trump apparently called and directed him
to have mullah removed as special
counsel Magan refused but Trump kept
pushing until finally this happened
instead of carrying out Trump's request
Magan decided he would quit instead
called he called his lawyer drove to the
White House packed up his office
prepared to submit a resignation letter
with his chief of staff told Reince
Priebus that the president has asked him
to do crazy blank and inform Priebus and
Bannon that he was leaving holy
blank preparing to quit because you're
being asked to do crazy isn't what
you expect from the White House Council
it's what you expect from Nicolas Cage's
personal assistants no ridiculous
I'm not constructing a 10-foot voodoo
doll of you out of red gemstones and
dead croaks I have a master's degree
this is crazy Nicholas it's crazy
you might take some reassurance
from the fact that so many of the people
in Trump's orbit did not do as he asked
but the worrying thing is lots of those
people are gone now and the newer
figures seem very much on the same page
as the president just look at how the
report was released
not only did Trump's Attorney General
William Bar vastly downplay its contents
in his letter summarizing it to Congress
but he also gave a preemptive press
conference to spin the reports contents
repeating Trump's favorite phrase no
collusion and making excuses for the
president like this as the special
counsels report acknowledges there is
substantial evidence to show that the
president was frustrated and angered by
his sincere belief that the
investigation was undermining his
presidency propelled by his political
opponents and fueled by illegal leaks
okay so first of all Donald Trump has
never once in his life being motivated
by a sincere belief he's motivated by
two things only one the icy howling wind
swirling in the yawning chasm of pitch
blackness where his soul should be and
to the hopeless pursuit of the only
woman he truly loves
when you look at his presidency this way
it's actually quite romantic and also if
I may quote the advice that Alec
Baldwin's attorney gives his client
being angry is not the same thing as
being innocent and that wasn't the only
thing that vas said that in the wake of
actually reading the report seems
laughably and willfully misleading the
White House fully cooperated with the
special counsels investigation the
president took no act that in fact
deprived the special counsel of the
documents and witnesses necessary to
complete his investigation but that is
at best a gross mischaracterization of
what the report actually said because
full cooperation would have involved
sitting down for an interview which
Trump did not do and mullick not only
found Trump's written answers inadequate
he also wrote that he engaged in efforts
to curtail the special counsels
investigation and prevent the disclosure
of evidence to it including through
public and private contacts with
potential witnesses which is pretty much
the exact opposite of what Bar set
it's like boss summarized the Twilight
novels as a girl in Florida goes to
third base with a Wookiee no I'm not
even sure we're reading the same
underlying material I've read the real
book where a dog man falls in love with
a baby respect the text or not the
written words look look all of this is
clearly very depressing and there's
still so much that we don't know there
are significant reductions within the
report as well as references to 14
investigations that Muller handed off to
other prosecutors 12 of which remained
secret and that can make this feel a
little anticlimactic
especially because ever since bar
summary came out the Trump
administration has been taking an
unearned victory lap the idea that any
of us and me as the campaign manager
would cheat steal lie cut corners talk
to Russians was an insult from the
beginning but was it though
was it an insult would be to say that
Kelly and Conway died many years ago and
is now a skin suit occupied and operated
by three hundred rats who've evolved the
ability to live that's an insult that's
what is insulting however is that the
mall report explicitly shows Trump and
his associates doing many of the things
that she just listed because here's the
important thing to remember the report
only vindicates the administration on
their own false premises a year ago we
pointed out the Trump and his team we're
trying to Center the narrative on
collusion despite the fact that that
term has no specific legal meaning in
criminal law but by reframing the
investigation that way Trump ensured
that anything short of Mullah publishing
400 pages of text messages between him
and Putin gaming out election fraud
meant the whole thing was a complete
waste of time
so mullahs report did not find collusion
and wasn't trying to because that word
doesn't even apply here and it didn't
establish that Trump's team was part of
a criminal conspiracy to interfere with
the election but it found a lot of other
stuff because just consider what we
learned or had confirmed this week
Russia interfered in our election and
made efforts to help Trump win whilebut
and while his campaign did not provably
cooperate with Russia they seemed eager
to accept their help in a way that no
one should be comfortable with also
Trump may have obstructed justice and if
he didn't it might only be because
people who work for him ignored his
orders and on top of all of this the
Attorney General the nation's top law
enforcement official has proven himself
to be a dishonest hack and I'm not
saying that any of that is good news but
it is definitely good that we know about
it the point is having the knowledge
that the Muller report provides is
infinitely better than the alternative
because that knowledge can inform
Congress going forward and crucially
voters a year and a half from now and
the alternative is for America to end up
like Michael Cohen perpetually confused
easily manipulated and never fully
understanding how a guy with a full-time
job as a press secretary can also be
such a max jacked certifiable meat
okay
[Applause]
you